README.md, before:

# Go Implementation of [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/)

This is an implementation of WireGuard in Go.

## Usage

Most Linux kernel WireGuard users are used to adding an interface with `ip link add wg0 type wireguard`. With wireguard-go, instead simply run:

```
$ wireguard-go wg0
```

This will create an interface and fork into the background. To remove the interface, use the usual `ip link del wg0`, or if your system does not support removing interfaces directly, you may instead remove the control socket via `rm -f /var/run/wireguard/wg0.sock`, which will result in wireguard-go shutting down.

To run wireguard-go without forking to the background, pass `-f` or `--foreground`:

```
$ wireguard-go -f wg0
```

When an interface is running, you may use [`wg(8)`](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-tools/about/src/man/wg.8) to configure it, as well as the usual `ip(8)` and `ifconfig(8)` commands.

To run with more logging you may set the environment variable `LOG_LEVEL=debug`.

## Platforms

### Linux

This will run on Linux; however **YOU SHOULD NOT RUN THIS ON LINUX**. Instead use the kernel module; see the [installation page](https://www.wireguard.com/install/) for instructions.

### macOS

This runs on macOS using the utun driver. It does not yet support sticky sockets, and won't support fwmarks because of Darwin limitations. Since the utun driver cannot have arbitrary interface names, you must either use `utun[0-9]+` for an explicit interface name or `utun` to have the kernel select one for you. If you choose `utun` as the interface name, and the environment variable `WG_TUN_NAME_FILE` is defined, then the actual name of the interface chosen by the kernel is written to the file specified by that variable.

### Windows

This runs on Windows, but you should instead use it from the more [fully featured Windows app](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows/about/), which uses this as a module.

### FreeBSD

This will run on FreeBSD. It does not yet support sticky sockets. Fwmark is mapped to `SO_USER_COOKIE`.

### OpenBSD

This will run on OpenBSD. It does not yet support sticky sockets. Fwmark is mapped to `SO_RTABLE`. Since the tun driver cannot have arbitrary interface names, you must either use `tun[0-9]+` for an explicit interface name or `tun` to have the program select one for you. If you choose `tun` as the interface name, and the environment variable `WG_TUN_NAME_FILE` is defined, then the actual name of the interface chosen by the kernel is written to the file specified by that variable.

## Building

This requires an installation of [go](https://golang.org) ≥ 1.12.

```
$ git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-go
$ cd wireguard-go
$ make
```

## License

    Copyright (C) 2017-2019 WireGuard LLC. All Rights Reserved.
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
    this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
    the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
    use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
    of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
    so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

wintun: stop recreating and deleting TUN interface
This commits reuses the current TUN interface. Instead of creating and
deleting it each time, it only enables it when in use and disables it
when not in use.

- This allows reuse of existing interface for WHLK testing.
- This allows adapter association with a NLA profile to persist across
  connections on Windows 8.
- This allows user configured network bindings to persist across
  connections.

Do not use in production! Without flushing the adapter to vanilla state
on each connection this is a potential security risk.

Do not use with wireguard-windows client: a MSI custom action is
required to clean all TUN adapters before uninstalling.

Signed-off-by: Simon Rozman <simon@rozman.si>

README.md, after:

# Go Implementation of [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/)

This is an implementation of WireGuard in Go.

## Usage

Most Linux kernel WireGuard users are used to adding an interface with `ip link add wg0 type wireguard`. With wireguard-go, instead simply run:

```
$ wireguard-go wg0
```

This will create an interface and fork into the background. To remove the interface, use the usual `ip link del wg0`, or if your system does not support removing interfaces directly, you may instead remove the control socket via `rm -f /var/run/wireguard/wg0.sock`, which will result in wireguard-go shutting down.

To run wireguard-go without forking to the background, pass `-f` or `--foreground`:

```
$ wireguard-go -f wg0
```

When an interface is running, you may use [`wg(8)`](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-tools/about/src/man/wg.8) to configure it, as well as the usual `ip(8)` and `ifconfig(8)` commands.

To run with more logging you may set the environment variable `LOG_LEVEL=debug`.

## Platforms

### Linux

This will run on Linux; however **YOU SHOULD NOT RUN THIS ON LINUX**. Instead use the kernel module; see the [installation page](https://www.wireguard.com/install/) for instructions.

### macOS

This runs on macOS using the utun driver. It does not yet support sticky sockets, and won't support fwmarks because of Darwin limitations. Since the utun driver cannot have arbitrary interface names, you must either use `utun[0-9]+` for an explicit interface name or `utun` to have the kernel select one for you. If you choose `utun` as the interface name, and the environment variable `WG_TUN_NAME_FILE` is defined, then the actual name of the interface chosen by the kernel is written to the file specified by that variable.

### Windows

This runs on Windows, but you should instead use it from the more [fully featured Windows app](https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-windows/about/), which uses this as a module.

This branch was altered not to delete the TUN adapter after use. Instead, the code just disables it and reenables it next time. The rationale behind this change is:

- A new network profile is created each time WireGuard creates a TUN adapter. Before Windows 10/Server 2016 the network profiles cannot be reused. This leads to:
  - Firewall zone selection is lost across tunnel recycling. 
  - A large number of stale network profiles causes issues in Task Scheduler [1](https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/windows_10-start/task-scheduler-crashed/5acab7c5-eb79-48c8-876d-ade321565953).
- Manual adapter configuration persists across tunnel recycling. Like adapter DNS suffix.

This branch is experimental. Use at own risk.

### FreeBSD

This will run on FreeBSD. It does not yet support sticky sockets. Fwmark is mapped to `SO_USER_COOKIE`.

### OpenBSD

This will run on OpenBSD. It does not yet support sticky sockets. Fwmark is mapped to `SO_RTABLE`. Since the tun driver cannot have arbitrary interface names, you must either use `tun[0-9]+` for an explicit interface name or `tun` to have the program select one for you. If you choose `tun` as the interface name, and the environment variable `WG_TUN_NAME_FILE` is defined, then the actual name of the interface chosen by the kernel is written to the file specified by that variable.

## Building

This requires an installation of [go](https://golang.org) ≥ 1.12.

```
$ git clone https://git.zx2c4.com/wireguard-go
$ cd wireguard-go
$ make
```

## License

    Copyright (C) 2017-2019 WireGuard LLC. All Rights Reserved.
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
    this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
    the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
    use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
    of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
    so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
    copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
    AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
    OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
    SOFTWARE.
